Bistro: Scheduling Data-Parallel Jobs Against Live
Production Systems
Andrey Goder, Alexey Spiridonov, and Yin Wang, Facebook, Inc.
https://www.usenix.org/conference/atc15/technical-session/presentation/goder

This paper is included in the Proceedings of the
2015 USENIX Annual Technical Conference (USENIC ATC ’15).
July 8–10, 2015 • Santa Clara, CA, USA
ISBN 978-1-931971-225

Open access to the Proceedings of the
2015 USENIX Annual Technical Conference
(USENIX ATC ’15) is sponsored by USENIX.

Bistro: Scheduling Data-Parallel Jobs Against Live Production Systems
Andrey Goder

Alexey Spiridonov

Yin Wang

{agoder, lesha, yinwang}@fb.com
Facebook, Inc

Abstract
Data-intensive batch jobs increasingly compete for resources with customer-facing online workloads in modern data centers. Today, the two classes of workloads run
on separate infrastructures using different resource managers that pursue different objectives. Batch processing
systems strive for coarse-grained throughput whereas online systems must keep the latency of fine-grained enduser requests low. Better resource management would
allow both batch and online workloads to share infrastructure, reducing hardware and eliminating the inefficient
and error-prone chore of creating and maintaining copies
of data. This paper describes Facebook’s Bistro, a scheduler that runs data-intensive batch jobs on live, customerfacing production systems without degrading the end-user
experience. Bistro employs a novel hierarchical model
of data and computational resources. The model enables
Bistro to schedule workloads efficiently and adapt rapidly
to changing configurations. At Facebook, Bistro is replacing Hadoop and custom-built batch schedulers, allowing
batch jobs to share infrastructure with online workloads
without harming the performance of either.

1 Introduction
Facebook stores a considerable amount of data in many
different formats, and frequently runs batch jobs that process, transform, or transfer data. Possible examples include re-encoding billions of videos, updating trillions of
rows in databases to accommodate application changes,
and migrating petabytes of data among various BLOB
storage systems [11, 12, 31].
Typical large-scale data processing systems such as
Hadoop [41] run against offline copies of data. Creating
copies of data is awkward, slow, error-prone, and sometimes impossible due to the size of the data; maintaining offline copies is even more inefficient. These troubles
overshadow the benefits if only a small portion of the of-

USENIX Association

fline data is ever used, and it is used only once. Furthermore, some batch jobs cannot be run on copies of data;
e.g., bulk database updates must mutate the online data.
Running batch jobs directly on live customer-facing production systems has the potential to dramatically improve
efficiency in modern environments such as Facebook.
Unfortunately, existing batch job schedulers are mostly
designed for offline operation [13, 15, 25, 28, 29, 32, 33,
36, 40, 42] and are ill-suited to online systems. First, they
do not support hard constraints on the burdens that jobs
place upon data hosts. The former may overload the latter, which is unacceptable for online data hosts serving
end users. Second, batch schedulers assume immutable
data, whereas online data changes frequently. Finally, a
batch scheduler typically assumes a specific offline data
ecosystem, whereas online systems access a wide range
of data sources and storage systems.
Facebook formerly ran many data-intensive jobs on
Hadoop, which illustrates the shortcomings of conventional batch schedulers. Hadoop tasks can draw data from
data hosts outside the Hadoop cluster, which can easily
overload data hosts serving online workloads. Our engineers formerly resorted to cumbersome distributed locking schemes that manually encoded resource constraints
into Hadoop tasks themselves. Dynamically changing
data poses still further challenges to Hadoop, because
there is no easy way to update a queued Hadoop job; even
pausing and resuming a job is difficult. Finally, Hadoop
is tightly integrated with HDFS, which hosts only a small
portion of our data; moving/copying the data is very inefficient. Over the years, our engineers responded to these
limitations by developing many ad hoc schedulers tailored to specific jobs; developing and maintaining per-job
schedulers is very painful. On the positive side, the experience of developing many specialized schedulers has
given us important insights into the fundamental requirements of typical batch jobs. The most important observation is that many batch jobs are “map-only” or “mapheavy,” in the sense that they are (mostly) embarrassingly
parallel. This in turn has allowed us to develop a sched-

2015 USENIX Annual Technical Conference 459

resources
name
capacity
volume
1 lock
host
200 IOPS
rack
40 Gbps

jobs
video re-encoding volume compact
1 lock
1 lock
100 IOPS
200 IOPS
1 Gbps
0 Gbps

(a) Resource capacity and job consumption

loads. We compare Bistro with a brute-force scheduling
solution, and describe several production applications of
Bistro at Facebook. Finally, Bistro is available as opensource software [2].
Section 2 discusses the scheduling problem, resource
model, and the scheduling algorithm of Bistro. Section 3
explains the implementation details of Bistro. Section 4
includes performance experiments and production applications, followed by related work and conclusion in Sections 5 and 6, respectively.

2 Scheduling
(b) Forest resource model

Figure 1: The scheduling problem: maximum resource
utilization subject to hierarchical resource constraints.
uler that trades some of the generality of existing batch
schedulers for benefits heretofore unavailable.
This paper describes Bistro, a scheduler that allows offline batch jobs to share clusters with online customerfacing workloads without harming the performance of either. Bistro treats data hosts and their resources as firstclass objects subject to hard constraints and models resources as a hierarchical forest of resource trees. Administrators specify total resource capacity and per job consumption at each level. Bistro schedules as many tasks
onto leaves as possible while satisfying their resource requirements along the paths to roots.
The forest model conveniently captures hierarchical resource constraints, and allows the scheduler to flexibly
accommodate varying data granularity, resource fluctuations, and job changes. Partitioning the forest model
corresponds to partitioning the underlying resource pools,
which makes it easy to scale both jobs and clusters relative
to one another, and allows concurrent scheduling for better throughput. Bistro reduces infrastructure hardware by
eliminating the need for separate online and batch clusters while improving efficiency by eliminating the need
to copy data between the two. Since its inception at
Facebook two years ago, Bistro has replaced Hadoop and
custom-built schedulers in many production systems, and
has processed trillions of rows and petabytes of data.
Our main contributions are the following: We define
a class of data-parallel jobs with hierarchical resource
constraints at online data resources. We describe Bistro,
a novel tree-based scheduler that safely runs such batch
jobs “in the background” on live customer-facing production systems without harming the “foreground” work-

460 2015 USENIX Annual Technical Conference

Bistro schedules data-parallel jobs against online clusters. This section describes the scheduling problem,
Bistro’s solution, and extensions.

2.1 The Scheduling Problem
First we define a few terms. A job is the overall work to
be completed on a set of data shards, e.g., re-encoding all
videos in Haystack [12], one of Facebook’s proprietary
BLOB storage systems. A task is the work to be completed on one data shard, e.g., re-encoding all videos on
one Haystack volume. So, a job is a set of tasks, one per
data shard. A worker is the process that performs tasks.
A scheduler is the process that dispatches tasks to workers. A worker host, data host, or scheduler host is the
computer that runs worker processes, stores data shards,
or runs scheduler processes, respectively.
Consider the scheduling problem depicted in Figure 1a.
We want to perform two jobs on data stored in Haystack:
video re-encoding and volume compaction. The former employs advanced compression algorithms for better video quality and space efficiency. The latter runs
periodically to recycle the space of deleted videos for
Haystack’s append-only storage. Tasks of both jobs operate at the granularity of data volumes. To avoid disrupting production traffic, we constrain the resource capacity
and job consumption in Figure 1a, which effectively allows at most two video re-encoding tasks or one volume
compaction task per host, and twenty video re-encoding
tasks per rack.
Volumes, hosts, and racks naturally form a forest by
their physical relationships, illustrated in Figure 1b. Job
tasks correspond to the leaf nodes of trees in this forest;
each job must complete exactly one task per leaf. This
implies a one-to-one relationship between tasks and data
units (shards, volumes, databases, etc.), which is the common case for data-parallel processing at Facebook. A task

USENIX Association

Algorithm 1 Brute-force scheduling algorithm (baseline)
1: procedure S CHEDULE O NE (M )

for job Ji ∈ J do
for node l ∈ all leaf nodes of M do
if task tli has not finished and there are enough
resources along l to root then
5:
update resource(M, tli )
6:
run(tli )
7:
end if
8:
end for
9:
end for
10: end procedure
2:

3:
4:

Figure 2: Head-of-line blocking using FIFO queue for
our scheduling problem. Here tk2 can block the rest of
the queue while waiting for the lock on vol k held by tk1 ,
and possibly other resources at higher-level nodes.
requires resources at each node along the path from leaf
to root. In this figure, the two jobs have a total of four
running tasks. Volumes i, j, k, and hosts A1 , An are running at full capacity, while other nodes have extra capacity
for more tasks. More formally, our problem setting is the
following.
• A resource forest with multiple levels, and a resource
capacity defined at each level.
• A set of jobs J = {J1 , ..., Jm }, where Ji consists
of a set of tasks {tai , tbi , ...}, corresponding to leaf
nodes a, b, ..., respectively. This encodes the one-toone relationship between tasks and data units.
• A task requires resources on nodes along its path to
the root, and the demand at each level is defined per
job.
Subject to resource constraints, the scheduling objective is to maximize resource utilization. The scheduler
should never leave a task waiting if its required resources
are available. High resource utilization often leads to high
throughput, which in turn reduces the total makespan, i.e.,
the time required to finish all jobs. We do not directly
minimize makespan, because the execution time of each
task is unpredictable, and long tails are common [17]. We
instead use scheduling policies to prioritize jobs, and mitigate long tails as described in Section 3.3. At large scale,
the main challenge is to minimize scheduling overhead,
i.e., to quickly find tasks to execute whenever extra resources become available.
In our scheduling problem formulation, each task requires resources along a unique path in our forest model.
This is fundamentally different from the typical scheduling problem that considers only interchangeable computational resources on worker hosts. The latter is extensively
studied in the literature, and First-In-First-Out (FIFO)
queue-based solutions are common [13, 15, 25, 28, 29, 32,
33, 36, 40, 42]. For our problem, FIFO queues can be extremely inefficient. Figure 2 shows an example using the
example of Figure 1. Assuming the worker pool has sufficient computational resources to run tasks in parallel, a
task can easily block the rest of the FIFO queue if its required resources are held by running tasks. A non-FIFO

USENIX Association

11: procedure B RUTE F ORCE ( )
12:
while True do
13:

S CHEDULE O NE(snapshot of the resource forest)

14:
end while
15: end procedure

Algorithm 2 Tree-based scheduling algorithm (Bistro)
1: procedure T REE S CHEDULE ( )
2:
while True do

t ← f inished task queue.blockingRead()
d ← the highest ancestor of the leaf node corresponding to t where t consumes resources
5:
S CHEDULE O NE(snapshot of the subtree at d
and the path from d to root)
6:
end while
7: end procedure
3:
4:

scheduler might look ahead in the queue to find runnable
tasks [42], but unless the scheduler examines the entire
queue, it might overlook runnable tasks. Unfortunately,
for large-scale computations, the overhead of inspecting
the entire queue for every scheduling decision is unacceptable. Section 2.2 introduces a more efficient scheduling algorithm and contrasts it to this brute-force approach.

2.2 Our Scheduling Algorithms
Our performance baseline is the aforementioned bruteforce scheduler that avoids unnecessary head-of-line
blocking by searching the entire queue for runnable tasks.
The pseudocode is in Algorithm 1. The B RUTE F ORCE
function executes in an infinite loop. Each iteration examines all tasks of all jobs to find runnable tasks to execute, and updates resources on the forest model accordingly. The complexity of each scheduling iteration is
O(number of jobs×number of leaves×number of levels).
In practice, each iteration of the brute-force scheduler

2015 USENIX Annual Technical Conference 461

is slow—around ten seconds for a modest million-node
problem. This incurs a significant scheduling overhead for
short tasks. On the other hand, one iteration can schedule
multiple tasks because it runs asynchronously using snapshots of the resource model. So, as tasks finishes more
quickly, each iteration reacts to larger batches of changes,
amortizing the scheduling complexity.
Algorithm 2 is Bistro’s more efficient tree-based
scheduling algorithm. The algorithm exploits the fact that
a task requires only resources in one tree of the resource
forest, or just a subtree if it does not consume resources all
the way to root. We can therefore consider only the associated tree for scheduling when a task finishes and releases
resources. This algorithm again executes the scheduling
procedure in an infinite loop, but instead of blindly examining all tasks of all jobs in each iteration, it waits for a
finished task, and invokes the scheduling iteration on the
corresponding subtree only. Although T REE S CHEDULE
may not schedule tasks in large batches as B RUTE F ORCE
does, it enables multi-threaded scheduling since different
tasks often correspond to non-overlapping trees or subtrees. Bistro uses reader-writer locks on tree nodes for
concurrency control.

2.3 Model Extensions and Limitations
The forest resource model is easy to extend. First, the
scheduling problem described in Section 2.1 assigns one
resource to each level, but it is straightforward to have
multiple resources [24]. This allows heterogeneous jobs
to be throttled independently, e.g., I/O bound jobs and
computation bound jobs can co-exist on a host. In addition, different jobs can execute at different levels of
the trees, not necessarily the bottom level. For example,
we may run maintenance jobs on server nodes alongside
video encoding jobs on volume nodes.
For periodic jobs like volume compaction in Figure 1,
Bistro has a built-in module to create and refresh timebased nodes. We add these nodes to volumes nodes as
children, so volume compaction runs at this new level periodically as the nodes refresh.
Partitioning the forest model for distributed scheduling
is flexible too. Node names are unique, so we can partition
trees by a hash of the names of their root nodes. Partitioning by location proximity is another choice. Some of our
applications prefer filtering by leaf nodes, such that after
failover, the new host that contains the same set of volumes or databases is still assigned to the same scheduler.
In addition to the forest model, Bistro supports Directed
Acyclic Graphs (DAGs). A common case is data replicas,
where multiple servers store the same logical volume or

462 2015 USENIX Annual Technical Conference

database. With DAGs, resources are still organized by
levels, and tasks run at the bottom level. For each bottom level node, Bistro examines all paths to root and can
schedule a task if any path has all the resources it needs.
Finally, Bistro is designed for embarrassingly parallel
jobs, or “map-only” jobs, where each task operates on its
own data shard independently. At Facebook, other than
data analytic jobs on Hive [37], many batch jobs are maponly or map-heavy. Bistro applies to map-heavy jobs
by running the reduce phase elsewhere, e.g., as a Thrift
service [1]. For jobs with non-trivial “reduce” phases,
our engineers came up with a solution that runs “map”
and “reduce” phases on separate Bistro setups, buffering
the intermediate results in RocksDB [5] or other highperformance data store; see Section 4.2.1 for an example.

2.4 Scheduling Against Live Workloads
Bistro requires manual configuration of resource capacity
based on the characteristics of live foreground workloads,
and manual configuration of the resource consumption of
background jobs. Users can adjust these settings at runtime upon workload changes, which Bistro will enforce in
the subsequent scheduling iterations by scheduling more
or killing running tasks. Bistro could monitor realtime
resource usage at runtime and adjust these settings automatically. However, live workloads are often spiky, such
that aggressive dynamic scheduling requires reliable and
rapid preemption of background jobs. This is challenging
if the data, worker, and scheduler hosts are all distributed,
and it complicates the task design by the requirement of
handling frequent hard kills. At Facebook, job owners
usually prefer static resource allocation for simplicity.

3 Implementation
This section discusses the implementation details of
Bistro, including its architecture and various components.

3.1 Architecture
Figure 3 depicts the architecture of Bistro, which consists of six modules. All of these modules work
asynchronously, communicating via either snapshots or
queues. The Config Loader reads and periodically updates
the resource and job configuration from some source, such
as a file, a URL, or a Zookeeper instance [27]. Based
on the current resource configuration, the Node Fetcher
builds and periodically updates the resource model. For
example, if we want to process all files in a directory,

USENIX Association

Figure 3: Bistro architecture

The multi/co-locate mode is for large-scale jobs that
a single scheduler cannot handle efficiently due to an
excessively large resource model or an excessively high
turnover rate. The latter happens if tasks are short or high
concurrency. If each data host corresponds to an independent resource tree, we often run one Bistro instance
on each data host too, which avoids network communication by connecting to the co-located worker directly.
This scheduling mode is very robust and scalable since
each Bistro instance works independently. One downside
of share-nothing schedulers is poor load balancing. For
a view of the global state, Bistro’s monitoring tools efficiently aggregate across all schedulers.
If data hosts have limited compute resources, we have
to move the workers elsewhere. The single/remote mode
is similar to single/co-locate with one scheduler and multiple workers on dedicated worker hosts, good for load
balancing. The multi/remote mode has multiple Bistro
instances. In this case, similar to multi/co-locate, we
can have one Bistro instance per worker to avoid network communication if we assign a fixed partition to each
worker. Alternatively we can run schedulers on dedicated
hosts for dynamic load balancing. Bistro’s Task Runner
module can incorporate probabilistic algorithms such as
two-choice for scalability [30, 32].

the Node Fetcher can periodically scan the directory to
maintain an up-to-date view of its contents. Most of our
large-scale jobs receive their nodes from a set of Thrift [1]
servers for scalability and reliability. These servers obtain
the resource model from databases or Zookeeper, typically with an intermediate Memcached layer. The Scheduler chooses tasks to execute based on the latest configuration and resource model, as well as the statuses of running and unfinished tasks. These statuses are maintained
by the Status Store. The Task Runner receives a list of
tasks to start, and can either run them locally or dispatch
them to remote workers depending on the configuration,
discussed in the next subsection. The Runner also moni- 3.3 Scheduling Policies
tors task execution and sends status updates to the Status
Store. Users observe job progress through a Web UI pro- Bistro implements four scheduling policies to prioritize
vided by the Monitor.
among jobs. Round robin loops through all jobs repeatedly and tries to find one task from each job to execute,
until no more task can be selected. Randomized priority is
3.2 Scheduling Modes
similar to weighted round robin. We repeatedly pick a job
The forest resource model of Bistro facilitates flexible with probability proportional to its priority, and schedule
scheduler/worker configuration. We can have either one one of its tasks. Ranked priority sorts jobs by user defined
Bistro instance for centralized scheduling or multiple in- priorities, and schedules as many tasks as possible for the
stances for distributed scheduling. Workers can reside on job with the highest priority before moving to the next job.
either data hosts or separate worker pool. This leads to Long tail scheduling policy tries to bring more jobs to full
four scheduling modes to accommodate diverse job re- completion via “ranked priority” with jobs sorted by their
remaining task count in increasing order.
quirements in large data centers, described below.
Round robin and randomized priority approximate fair
The single/co-locate mode has one central Bistro instance, and one worker on each data host, which receives scheduling, while ranked priority and long tail are priorionly tasks that access local data. In addition to data lo- tized. The latter two can be risky because one job that fails
callity, the centralized scheduler can enforce optimal load repeatedly on a node can block other jobs from running on
balancing and fair scheduling. Since the entire forest that node. All these policies guarantee locally maximal remodel is on one Bistro instance, we can add a common source utilization in the sense that no more tasks can run
root to all trees to enforce global resource contraints too. on the subtree. Supporting globally maximal resource utiThe scheduler is a single point of failure but Bistro can lization or globally optimal scheduling polices would relog task statuses to redundant storage for fail over. We quire much more complex computation and incur greater
employ this mode whenever the data hosts have sufficient scheduling overhead. We have not encountered any procompute resources and the total number of nodes is small. duction application that requires optimal scheduling.

USENIX Association

2015 USENIX Annual Technical Conference 463

3.4 Config Loader and Node Fetcher

3.6 Task Runner and Worker Management

For each Bistro deployment, users specify the resource
and job configuration in a file, a URL, or a Zookeeper
cluster [27]. Most of our production systems use
Zookeeper for reliability. Bistro’s Config Loader refreshes the configuration regularly at runtime.
The resource configuration specifies the tree model, resource capacity at each level, and the scheduling mode.
It also specifies a Node Fetcher that Bistro will call to retrieve nodes of the tree and periodically refresh them. Different storage types have different node fetcher plugins so
Bistro can model their resource hierarchies.
A Bistro deployment can run multiple jobs simultaneously. Each job defaults to the same number of tasks, corresponding to all bottom nodes in the forest model. The
job configuration specifies for each job the resource consumption and the task binary. Each tree node has a unique
name, and Bistro passes the leaf node name to the command so it will operate on the corresponding data shard.
Users can include filters in a job configuration to exclude nodes from executing tasks for the job. Filters are
useful for testing, debugging, and non-uniform problems.

After scheduling, the Task Runner module starts scheduled tasks, monitors their executions, and updates the Status Store. Task Runner supports both running tasks locally and dispatching it to remote workers. In the latter
case, it considers resource constraints on worker hosts as
well as task placement constraints [23, 32, 35]. Currently,
each Bistro instance manages its own set of workers, but it
is straightforward to incorporate probabilistic algorithms
such as two-choice for better load balancing [30].

4 Evaluation
We implemented Bistro in C++ with less than 14,000
physical source lines of code (SLOC). As explained in
Section 2.1, FIFO-queue-based schedulers lead to almost
serial execution for our scheduling problem. Unfortunately most schedulers in the literature as well as commercial schedulers are queue-based, not very interesting
for comparison. Therefore, we compare our tree-based
scheduling algorithm with the brute-force approach, both
explained in Section 2.2. The brute-force approach was
widely used in our ad-hoc schedulers before Bistro.

3.5 Status Store and Fault Tolerance
A task can be in one of several states, including ready, running, backoff, failure, and done. The Status Store module
records status updates it receives from Task Runner. It
also provides status snapshots to Scheduler and Monitor.
A task is uniquely identified by a (job name, node name)
pair, and therefore Status Store does not need to track resource model changes.
Status Store can log task statuses to external storage
for failure recovery, such as Scuba [7], remote MySQL
databases, and local SQLite databases. Scuba is scalable
and reliable but has limited data size and retention. Replicated MySQL is more reliable than SQLite, while the latter is more scalable because it is distributed over scheduler hosts. Users choose the external storage based on
job requirements. In practice, most failures are temporary.
Therefore, users often choose SQLite for the best performance, and write idempotent tasks so Bistro can always
start over for unrecoverable failures.
Users monitor tasks and jobs through a Web UI, which
is an endpoint on Phabricator [3]. The endpoint handles
browser requests and aggregates task status data from one
or multiple Bistro instances, depending on the scheduling
mode. Bistro logs task outputs to local disk, which can
also be queried through Phabricator for debugging.

464 2015 USENIX Annual Technical Conference

4.1 Microbenchmark
We run our experiments in multi/remote mode with 10
scheduler hosts and 100 worker hosts, each scheduler host
has 16 Xeon 2.2 GHz physical cores and 144 GB memory. The resource setup and workload mimic our database
scraping production application, which is most sensitive
to scheduling overhead because of its short task duration. There are two levels of nodes (or three if adding a
root node to enforce global resource constraints), host and
database. Each data host has 25 databases; we vary the
number of data hosts to evaluate Bistro’s scalability. The
resource model is partitioned among the 10 schedulers by
hashing the data host name. Each task sleeps for a random
amount of time that is uniformly distributed over [0, 2d],
where d is a job configuration value that we vary.
Figure 4 shows the performance results with different resource and job settings. In the legend, “bruteforce” refers to brute-force scheduling, and “tree n thr”
means tree-based scheduling with n threads, where different threads work on different subtrees, explained in
Section 2.2. We show normalized throughput of different
scheduling algorithms where 100% means no scheduling
overhead, calculated as the maximum number of concurrent tasks allowed by resource constraints divided by the

USENIX Association

normalized thoughput

1
0.8
0.6

brute−force
tree 1 thr
tree 2 thr
tree 4 thr
tree 8 thr
tree 16 thr

0.4
0.2
0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

average task duration (s)

8

9

10

(a) varying task duration (3m nodes, 10 jobs)

normalized thoughput

1
0.8
0.6

brute−force
tree 1 thr
tree 2 thr
tree 4 thr
tree 8 thr

0.4
0.2
0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

number of leaf nodes (tasks per job)

10

6

x 10

(b) varying number of nodes (5 jobs, task duration 5s)

normalized thoughput

1
0.8
0.6

brute−force
tree 1 thr
tree 2 thr
tree 4 thr

0.4
0.2
0

1

2

3

4

5

6

number of jobs

7

8

9

10

(c) varying number of jobs (3m nodes, task duration 5s)

normalized thoughput

0.8
0.6
0.4

brute−force
tree 1 thr
tree 2 thr
tree 4 thr

0.2
0

0

10

20

30

40

50

turnover rate of tasks using global resources (count/min)

(d) varying number of tasks using global resources (300k nodes, 5
jobs, task duration 5s)

Figure 4: Scheduling throughput using synthetic
workload under different configurations.

USENIX Association

average task duration. In all our experiments, the throughput increases slightly for both scheduling algorithms as
more tasks finish because there are less tasks to examine
in each scheduling iteration. It then drops quickly when
there are not enough tasks to occupy all resources. We
measure the throughput at the midpoint of each run, and
report the average of five runs. The variation is negligible
and therefore we do not include error bars in the figure.
Overall, brute-force scheduling shows relatively stable
performance because of asynchronous scheduling. If a
scheduling iteration takes too long, more tasks finish and
release resources, such that the next iteration can schedule
more tasks. For a model size of 300k nodes at one scheduler and 5 jobs, each scheduling iteration takes roughly
5 seconds. Tree-based scheduling achieves almost zero
overhead when there are enough threads to handle the
turnover rate, otherwise the performance drops quickly.
The worst case for the tree-based scheduling is with
global resources, shown in Figure 4d. In this case there
is only one scheduler, and we add a root node to model a
global resource, as explained in Section 2.3. Only one job
uses the global resource. We set the job to a high priority
and use the ranked priority scheduling policy so it runs at
the maximum throughput allowed by the global resource
constraint. The result shows that the tree-based scheduling performs similarly to brute-force scheduling when the
turnover rate of the tasks using global resources is high.
This is because when global resources become available
for scheduling, Bistro needs to lock the entire tree for
scheduling. The overhead of brute-force scheduling is not
affected by global resources since it always takes a snapshot of the entire model.

4.2 Production Applications
There are roughly three categories of data store at Facebook, SQL databases for user data, Haystack [12] and
F4 [31] for Binary Large OBjects (BLOBs), and Hive [37]
and HBase for mostly analytical data. Bistro is currently
the only general-purpose scheduler for batch jobs on SQL
databases and Haystack/F4. It has also replaced Hadoop
for some map-only jobs on HBase, especially on clusters
that serve live traffic.
Table 1 shows some of our production applications.
The mode column indicates the scheduling mode discussed in Section 3.2. The resource model section shows
the characteristics of the resources at each level. The
concurrency column shows the resource capacity of that
level divided by the default consumption. The change
rate column is the average percentage of nodes added or
removed per time interval, measured over 30 days in pro-

2015 USENIX Annual Technical Conference 465

Application

Mode

Database
Iterator
Database
Scraping
Storage
Migration

single/
remote
single/
remote
single/
co-locate

Video
Re-encoding

multi/
remote

HBase
Compression

multi/
co-locate

level
1
2
3
1
2
1
2
1
2
3
1
2
3

Resource Model
resource
node
concur- change
type
count
rency
rate
root
1
various
∼10 k
host
2
2.1%/ hr
∼100 k
db
1
2.1%/ hr
∼10 k
host
1
2.4%/ hr
∼100 k
db
1
2.3%/ hr
∼1k
host
3
<1%/ day
∼100 k
dir
1
<1%/ day
∼1k
host
1
1.3%/ hr
∼100 k
volume
1
1.2%/ hr
∼1 b
video
1
1.3%/ hr
∼100
host
3
2.6%/ min
∼1 k
region
3
3.1%/ min
∼10 k
time
8.3%/ min

Job
concurrent change
jobs
rate

task
data

avg. task
duration

5

10/ day

300k rows 5 min

10

5/ hr

1 MB

5 sec

1

<1/ day

100 GB

7 hr

1

<1/ day

5 MB

20 min

10

10/hr

3m rows

1 min

Table 1: Summary of some production applications at Facebook. We show node number in order of magnitude to
preserve confidentiality, prefixed by ∼. Numbers in the Job section are approximate too for the same reason.
duction. Node Fetcher refreshes the model every minute
by polling the publishing source, the actual change rate
can be higher. The job section shows the characteristics
of jobs and tasks. The change rate shows the actual number of changes rather than a percentage, because often we
just change the configuration of a job instead of adding or
removing jobs. Next we discuss these applications.
4.2.1 Database Iterator
Database Iterator is a tool designed to modify rows directly in hundreds of thousands of databases distributed
over thousands of hosts. For example, backfilling when
new social graph entities are introduced, and data format
changes for TAO caching [14]. Because of the lack of
batch processing tools for large-scale online databases,
this use case motivated the Bistro project.
We use a single Bistro instance since the resource
model fits in memory, and some jobs need global concurrency limits. The scheduler sends tasks to a set of workers,
i.e., single/remote scheduling mode. We measure 2.1%
of hosts and databases change every hour, mostly due
to maintenance and newly added databases. Users write
their own iterator jobs by extending a base class and implementing selectRows(), which picks rows to process, and processRows(), which modifies the rows
selected. Each task (one per database instance) modifies
roughly 300 thousand rows on average. The task duration,
while very heterogeneous, averages around five minutes.
The total job span is much longer due to long tails.
Before Bistro, Database Iterator ran on a distributed
system that executes arbitrary PHP functions asynchronously. Bistro replaced the old system two years ago

466 2015 USENIX Annual Technical Conference

and it has processed more than 400 iterator jobs and hundreds of trillions of rows. Table 2 compares both systems
from the point of view of the production engineers.
Most Database Iterator jobs read and write data on a
single database, so our forest resource model is sufficient for protection. Some jobs, however, read from one
database and write to many other databases because of
different hash keys. Database Iterator supports general
“reduce” operations by buffering the intermediate results
in RocksDB [5]. One such example was a user data migration. We used two Bistro setups in this case since
the source and destination databases are different. The
“map” Bistro runs tasks against source databases, writing to RocksDB “grouped by” the hash keys of destination. The “reduce” Bistro runs tasks against destination
databases, reading from RocksDB using the corresponding keys. Both sets of databases, totalling hundreds of
thousands, were serving live traffic during the migration.
4.2.2 Database Scraping
Database scraping is a common step in ETL (Extract,
Transform, Load) pipelines. The resource configuration
is similar to database iterator except that we include all
replicas because the jobs are read-only; see Section 2.3 on
how to model replicas. The scheduling mode is also single/remote but the worker hosts are dedicated to scraping
jobs, which allows Bistro to manage their resources and
enforce task placement constraints. For example, since
scraping jobs run repeatedly, we monitor their resource
usage and balance workload among workers.
Before Bistro, we ran scraping on a distributed execution system for time-based jobs, compared in Table 3.

USENIX Association

resource
throttling
model/job
updates
canary
testing
monitor

a proprietary asynchronous execution framework
Similar to brute-force scheduling except that tasks
have to lock resources themselves by querying a central database, which gets overloaded frequently.
Database failovers, new databases, and job changes
are frequent, such that queued tasks become outdated
quickly, and no job finishes 100% in one run.
No support. Canary testing is crucial because each job
runs only once. We make adjustments frequently.
Shows various performance counters but not the overall progress, since it does not know the entire set of
tasks.

Bistro
Supports hierarchical resource constraints so tasks
need not check resources themselves. Tree-based
scheduling achieves better throughput.
Resource models and job configurations are always up
to date. All jobs finish completely.
Supports whitelist, blacklist, fraction, and etc. Easy to
pause, modify, and resume jobs at runtime.
Shows a progress bar per job, with all tasks in different
statuses.

Table 2: Feedback from Database Iterator operations team
LOC
resource
throttling
model/job
updates
SPOF
Priority
Job filter

an execution framework for time-based jobs
1,150 for an ad-hoc resource manager (RM)
The framework applies batch scheduling. Tasks query
RM to lock resources. The framework supports only
slot based resource allocation on worker hosts.
RM takes 45 min to save all resources and tasks to
database before scheduling. No update afterwards.
RM, central database, and scheduler all failed multiple
times, halting production.
No support. Often all jobs get stuck at 99%
Choices of databases are hard coded in each job.

Bistro
135 for a new node fetcher
Supports hierarchical resource constraints for external resources, as well as resource constraints and task
placement constraints on workers.
21 sec to get all resources and tasks, and constantly
updated.
Only the scheduler, which fails over automatically
Ranked Priority gets jobs to 100% one by one
Automatically tracks database changes.

Table 3: Feedback from Database Scraping operations team
Similar to the asynchronous execution framework used by
Database Iterator previously, the system does not consider
data resources consumed by tasks, and our engineers had
to write an ad-hoc resource manager to lock databases for
tasks, which did not scale well. The scheduling algorithm
of the distributed execution system is similar to bruteforce scheduling, where the scheduler loops through all
unfinished tasks repeatedly. Upon start, the resource manager takes 45 minutes to collect all resource and tasks, and
log them to a central database. Discounting the 45 minute
startup time, we compare the performance of Bistro with
brute-force scheduling by replaying a real scraping workload, shown in Figure 5.
There are 20 jobs in the workload, and we are interested in the makespan of the schedule with different job
settings. For each experiment, we take 10 runs with different leaf node ordering to average out the makespan variation due to the long tail. The figure shows both the average makespan and the standard deviation. Figure 5a is
the makespan of scheduling only one job. Tree scheduling is only slightly better than brute-force scheduling, because long tail tasks often dominate the entire schedule.
When there are multiple jobs, on the other hand, treebased scheduling can be as much as three times faster than
brute-force scheduling, shown in Figure 5b. Bistro took

USENIX Association

over scraping jobs a year ago, which significantly reduced
the scraping time, and eased our daily operation.
4.2.3 Haystack/F4 Applications
Storage Migration in Table 1 refers to a one-time job that
moved sixteen petabytes of videos from a legacy file system to Haystack. Bistro scheduled tasks on each server
of the proprietary file system, which sent video files from
local directories to Haystack. The destination Haystack
servers were not serving production traffic until the migration completed, so we did not throttle tasks for destination resources. At the time of migration, newly uploaded
videos already went to Haystack and the old file system
was locked. Therefore, the model change rate was low.
The overall job took about three months to finish.
Video re-encoding is a project to recompress old user
videos with more advanced algorithms to save space without detectable quality degradation. We use fast compression algorithms for live video uploads in order to serve
them quickly. Recompressing “cold” videos saves storage space substantially. Compressing each user video using the advanced algorithm takes roughly twenty minutes.
Compressing a whole volume can take several days even
with multithreading, during which time many videos may

2015 USENIX Annual Technical Conference 467

brute−force
tree

400

Empirical CDF

1

Hadoop job
Bistro task

0.8

300

F(x)

makespan (s)

500

200
100

0.6
0.4
0.2

0

0

each bar represents a different job

0

1

2

3

(a) Makespan of scheduling one job

4

5

running time (min)

6

7

8

9

(a) HBase table A
brute−force
tree

3000

1
0.8

2000

F(x)

makespan (s)

4000

1000
0

2

4

6

8

10

12

number of jobs

14

16

18

20

(b) Makespan of scheduling multiple jobs concurrently

Figure 5: Makespan of our Database Scraping jobs
be deleted or updated by users, leading to corrupted metadata. Therefore we process tasks at video level rather
than volume level, and let Bistro keeps all videos updated.
Each Bistro instance can store a hundred million nodes in
memory so we only need a dozen or so scheduler hosts.
Compressing a billion videos in a reasonable amount of
time, however, requires hundreds of thousands of workers.
We are working on a project that harnesses underutilized
web servers for the computation.

hadoop job
bistro task

0.6
0.4
0.2
0

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

running time (min)

8

9

10

(b) HBase table B

Figure 6: Running time of Bistro tasks vs. Hadoop
jobs for HBase Compression

internally for performance counter queries, and Hadoop
often disturbed the query workload. In addition, the
MapReduce computation model waits for the slowest task
in each phase, which caused 10 % jobs to miss deadlines
due to long tail. In contrast, Bistro runs each task independently, and slow data shards may catch up later. Figure 6
shows the empirical CDF of running time for both Hadoop
jobs and individual map tasks, measured over one week in
4.2.4 Hbase Compression
a production cluster. There are two different tables we run
HBase [21] is convenient for long-term data storage with compression jobs on, with different amounts of data. The
schema. We often need to compress old data to save figure shows that the Hadoop job histogram starts roughly
space. Our performance counter data is one such example. at the tail of the individual task CDF, confirming the barThere are three million rows stored every second from all rier problem.
performance counters. We want to preserve old data at
coarse granularity. This is done by a compression job that
5 Related Work
runs every 15 minutes.
We set up Bistro in multi/co-locate mode so each instance processes only local HBase regions. This essentially enforces data locality, which benefits our I/O heavy
Early data center schedulers focus on computejob. In addition to the node fetcher that retrieves HBase intensive workload and task parallelism, often assohosts and regions, we generate time-based nodes to run ciated with High Performance Computing (HPC) and
the compression job periodically; see Section 2.3 for de- Grid Computing. In these environments, a job can
tail. During our measurements, a few HBase servers did be one task or a series of tasks organized by a worknot return region information reliably, so we see a signifi- flow, each corresponding to a different binary. The
cant percentage of node changes.
scheduler assigns tasks to different machines, considering
Before Bistro, we ran the compression job on Hadoop, their resource requirements, placement constraints, and
compared in Table 4. The HBase cluster is heavily used dependencies. Scheduling objectives include minimiz-

468 2015 USENIX Annual Technical Conference

USENIX Association

duration
skipped
jobs
Resource
throttling
Data
locality
other
issues

Hadoop
Depends on the slowest map task
10%, which happens when the previous job did not
finish in its time window.
No support. Starting a new job often slows down the
entire cluster, causing service outage
99%. Speculative execution kicks in for long tails,
which makes it worse since our tasks are I/O bound.
Difficulty of deployment, no counters/ monitoring/
alerting, no flexible retry setting, no slowing down/
pausing/ resuming, no job filtering.

Bistro
Each task runs independently
No missing job since tasks run independently. The percentage of skipped tasks are less than 0.1%
No detectable query delay with our hierarchical resource constraints.
100% in multi/co-locate mode.
All supported.

Table 4: Feedback from Hbase Compression operations team
ing makespan, minimizing mean completion time, maximizing throughput, fairness, or a combination of these;
see [15, 19, 33] for good reviews of the topic. There are
many open source and commercial schedulers for HPC
and Grid workloads [4, 25, 29, 36].
Since MapReduce [18], data-intensive job scheduling
has become the norm in the literature [10,13,22,26,28,32,
34, 38–40, 42, 43]. However, since MapReduce is an offline data processing framework, all schedulers of which
we are aware assume no external resources needed and
focus on interchangeable compute resources of the offline
cluster. Typically the scheduler assigns tasks to workers
from either a global queue or a set of queues corresponding to different jobs.
The data locality problem can be viewed as a special
and simple case of our data resource constraints, where
we want to place a task on the worker that hosts the data
[6, 16, 28, 39, 42]. However, since queue-based scheduling is ill suited to non-interchangeable resources (Section 2.1), these schedulers treat data locality as a preference rather than a hard constraint. For example, Delay Schedule skips each job up to k times before launching its tasks non-locally [42]. A variation of the scheduling problem considers task placement constraints, where
a task can only be assigned to a subset of workers due
to dependencies on hardware architecture or kernel version [23, 32, 35]. Task placement constraints are associated with jobs, so we cannot use them to enforce datalocal tasks. Mitigating stragglers or reducing job latency
is another popular topic [8–10, 17, 20, 43].
Bistro moves one step further by scheduling dataparallel jobs against online systems directly. It treats resources at data hosts, either local or remote, as first-class
objects, and can strictly enforce data locality and other hierarchical constraints without sacrificing scheduling performance. Many of its data-centric features are not common in the literature, e.g., tree-based scheduling, updating
resources and jobs at runtime, flexible and elastic setup.
Regarding performance, Bistro is optimized for high

USENIX Association

throughput, handling highly concurrent short-duration
tasks. Many schedulers assume long running tasks, and
sacrifice scheduling delays for the optimal schedule. For
example, Quincy takes about one second to schedule
a task in a 2,500-node cluster [28]. In contrast, our
Database Scraping workload has a turnover rate of thousands of tasks per second. Recently, Sparrow aimed at
query tasks of millisecond duration, and reduced scheduling latencies for fast responses [32, 40]. Bistro can incorporate Sparrow in its Task Runner module to reduce the
task dispatching latency.

6 Conclusion
Data center scheduling has transitioned from computeintensive jobs to data-intensive jobs, and it is progressing
from offline data processing to online data processing. We
present a tree-based scheduler called Bistro that can safely
run large-scale data-parallel jobs against live production
systems. The novel tree-based resource model enables hierarchical resource constraints to protect online clusters,
efficient updates to capture resource and job changes, flexible partitioning for distributed scheduling, and parallel
scheduling for high performance. Bistro has gained popularity at Facebook by replacing Hadoop and custom-built
schedulers in many production systems. We are in the process of migrating more jobs to Bistro, and plan to extend
its resource and scheduling models in the next version.

7 Acknowledgements
We thank Terence Kelly, Haibo Chen, Sanjeev Kumar,
Benjamin Reed, Kaushik Veeraraghavan, Daniel Peek,
and Benjamin Wester for early feedback on the paper.
Anonymous reviews helped us improve the paper further, and we appreciate our shepherd Haryadi Gunawi for
working on the final version.

2015 USENIX Annual Technical Conference 469

References

[17] J. Dean and L. A. Barroso. The tail at scale. Communications of the ACM, 56(2):74–80, 2013.

[1] Apache Thrift. thrift.apache.org.
[2] Bistro. bistro.io.
[3] Phabricator. phabricator.org.
[4] Platform LSF. www.ibm.com.
[5] RocksDB. rocksdb.org.

[18] J. Dean and S. Ghemawat. Mapreduce: Simplified
data processing on large clusters. In OSDI, 2004.
[19] D. G. Feitelson, L. Rudolph, U. Schwiegelshohn,
K. C. Sevcik, and P. Wong. Theory and practice in
parallel job scheduling. In Job scheduling strategies
for parallel processing, pages 1–34. Springer, 1997.

[6] Under the hood: Scheduling MapReduce jobs more [20] A. D. Ferguson, P. Bodik, S. Kandula, E. Boutin, and
efficiently with Corona. www.facebook.com.
R. Fonseca. Jockey: guaranteed job latency in data
parallel clusters. In EuroSys, 2012.
[7] L. Abraham, , et al. Scuba: diving into data at
facebook. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment, [21] L. George. HBase: the definitive guide. O’Reilly
6(11):1057–1067, 2013.
Media, Inc., 2011.
[8] G. Ananthanarayanan, A. Ghodsi, S. Shenker, and
[22] A. Ghodsi, M. Zaharia, B. Hindman, A. Konwinski,
I. Stoica. Effective straggler mitigation: Attack of
S. Shenker, and I. Stoica. Dominant resource fairthe clones. In NSDI, 2013.
ness: fair allocation of multiple resource types. In
NSDI, 2011.
[9] G. Ananthanarayanan, M. C.-C. Hung, X. Ren,
I. Stoica, A. Wierman, and M. Yu. Grass: trimming
stragglers in approximation analytics. In NSDI, [23] A. Ghodsi, M. Zaharia, S. Shenker, and I. Stoica.
Choosy: max-min fair sharing for datacenter jobs
2014.
with constraints. In EuroSys, 2013.
[10] G. Ananthanarayanan, S. Kandula, A. G. Greenberg,
I. Stoica, Y. Lu, B. Saha, and E. Harris. Reining in [24] R. Grandl, G. Ananthanarayanan, S. Kandula,
S. Rao, and A. Akella. Multi-resource packing for
the outliers in map-reduce clusters using mantri. In
cluster schedulers. In SIGCOMM, 2014.
OSDI, 2010.
[11] K. Bandaru and K. Patiejunas.
Under the
hood: Facebook’s cold storage system. code.
facebook.com.

[25] R. L. Henderson. Job scheduling under the portable
batch system. In Job scheduling strategies for parallel processing, pages 279–294. Springer, 1995.

[12] D. Beaver, S. Kumar, H. C. Li, J. Sobel, and P. Va- [26] B. Hindman, A. Konwinski, M. Zaharia, A. Ghodsi,
jgel. Finding a needle in haystack: Facebook’s photo
A. D. Joseph, R. Katz, S. Shenker, and I. Stoica.
storage. In OSDI, 2010.
Mesos: A platform for fine-grained resource sharing
in the data center. In NSDI, 2011.
[13] E. Boutin, J. Ekanayake, W. Lin, B. Shi, J. Zhou,
Z. Qian, M. Wu, and L. Zhou. Apollo: Scalable and [27] P. Hunt, M. Konar, F. P. Junqueira, and B. Reed.
coordinated scheduling for cloud-scale computing.
Zookeeper: wait-free coordination for internet-scale
In OSDI, 2014.
systems. In USENIX Annual Technical Conference,
2010.
[14] N. Bronson et al. Tao: Facebooks distributed data
store for the social graph. In Usenix Annual Techni[28] M. Isard, V. Prabhakaran, J. Currey, U. Wieder,
cal Conference, 2013.
K. Talwar, and A. Goldberg. Quincy: fair scheduling
for distributed computing clusters. In SOSP, 2009.
[15] P. Brucker. Scheduling algorithms. Springer, 2007.
[16] F. Chung, R. Graham, R. Bhagwan, S. Savage, and [29] D. Jackson, Q. Snell, and M. Clement. Core algorithms of the maui scheduler. In Job Scheduling
G. M. Voelker. Maximizing data locality in disStrategies for Parallel Processing, pages 87–102.
tributed systems. Journal of Computer and System
Springer, 2001.
Sciences, 72(8):1309–1316, 2006.

470 2015 USENIX Annual Technical Conference

USENIX Association

a petabyte scale data warehouse using hadoop. In In[30] M. Mitzenmacher. The power of two choices in ranternational Conference on Data Engineering, 2010.
domized load balancing. Parallel and Distributed
Systems, IEEE Transactions on, 12(10):1094–1104,
2001.
[38] A. Tumanov, J. Cipar, G. R. Ganger, and M. A.
Kozuch. alsched: Algebraic scheduling of mixed
[31] S. Muralidhar, W. Lloyd, S. Roy, C. Hill, E. Lin,
workloads in heterogeneous clouds. In Symposium
W. Liu, S. Pan, S. Shankar, V. Sivakumar, L. Tang,
on Cloud Computing, 2012.
et al. f4: Facebooks warm blob storage system. In
OSDI, 2014.
[39] V. K. Vavilapalli, A. C. Murthy, C. Douglas, S. Agarwal, M. Konar, R. Evans, T. Graves, J. Lowe,
[32] K. Ousterhout, P. Wendell, M. Zaharia, and I. StoH. Shah, S. Seth, et al. Apache hadoop YARN: Yet
ica. Sparrow: distributed, low latency scheduling.
another resource negotiator. In Symposium on Cloud
In SOSP, 2013.
Computing, 2013.
[33] M. Pinedo. Scheduling: theory, algorithms, and systems. Springer, 2012.
[40] S. Venkataraman, A. Panda, G. Ananthanarayanan,
[34] M. Schwarzkopf, A. Konwinski, M. Abd-El-Malek,
and J. Wilkes. Omega: flexible, scalable schedulers
for large compute clusters. In EuroSys, 2013.
[35] B. Sharma, V. Chudnovsky, J. L. Hellerstein, R. Rifaat, and C. R. Das. Modeling and synthesizing task
placement constraints in google compute clusters. In
Symposium on Cloud Computing, 2011.

M. J. Franklin, and I. Stoica. The power of choice in
data-aware cluster scheduling. In OSDI, 2014.
[41] T. White. Hadoop: The Definitive Guide. O’Reilly
Media, 2009.
[42] M. Zaharia, D. Borthakur, J. Sen Sarma, K. Elmeleegy, S. Shenker, and I. Stoica. Delay scheduling: a
simple technique for achieving locality and fairness
in cluster scheduling. In EuroSys, 2010.

[36] T. Tannenbaum, D. Wright, K. Miller, and M. Livny.
Condor: a distributed job scheduler. In Beowulf [43] M. Zaharia, A. Konwinski, A. D. Joseph, R. H. Katz,
cluster computing with Linux, pages 307–350. MIT
and I. Stoica. Improving mapreduce performance in
press, 2001.
heterogeneous environments. In OSDI, 2008.
[37] A. Thusoo, J. S. Sarma, N. Jain, Z. Shao, P. Chakka,
N. Zhang, S. Anthony, H. Liu, and R. Murthy. Hive -

USENIX Association

2015 USENIX Annual Technical Conference 471

